Email template persnicketiness (#81)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2020/2020-02-16-all-your-mailer-views-in-one-place.md

---
title: "All Your Mailer Views in One Place"
description: "A little separation"
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2020/all-your-mailer-views-in-one-place'
  alt: "Envelopes"
  credit:  Joanna Kosinska
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/uGcDWKN91Fs"
---

> One of the greatest things that Rails provides to developers is a sensible set of defaults for _where stuff goes_ in the file hierarchy. The standard approach to `app/modals`, `app/mailers`, `app/views`, `config` allows us to arrive at a Rails project and quickly understand where existing code is and where to place our new code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the greatest things that Rails provides to developers is a sensible set of defaults for _where stuff goes_ in the file hierarchy. The standard approach to `app/models`, `app/mailers`, `app/views`, `config`, etc,  allows us to arrive at a Rails project and quickly understand where existing code is and where to place our new code.
```

> I’m therefore loathe to deviate much from the defaults, but I make one exception. For email view templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I’m therefore loathe to deviate much from the defaults, but I make one exception: email view templates.
```

## Instead of...

...storing your mailer templates in their default location.

e.g. for `UserMailer`, the mailer is in `app/mailers/user_mailer.rb` and the view templates are in `app/views/user_mailer`.

## Use

...a folder/subdirectory within `app/views` or a new “top-level” directory within `app`.

```ruby
class ApplicationMailer < ActionMailer::Base
  prepend_view_path "app/views/mailers"
end
```

...or preferably...

```ruby
class ApplicationMailer < ActionMailer::Base
  prepend_view_path "app/mailer_views"
end
```

Then move the files from `app/views/user_mailer` to `app/views/mailers/user_mailer` or `app/mailer_views/user_mailer`.

## Why?

> Mailers and Controllers, in Rails, share similar kinds of functionality: reading variables from passed parameters, loading data and rendering output. The Rails codebase reflects this as they both inherit parts of their behaviour from `AbstractController` ([documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/AbstractController/Base.html)).

Reviewer: Don't need a comma before "in Rails".

Reviewer: Comma before "and rendering otuput".

Reviewer: *as both Mailers and Controllers inherit parts of their behaviour...

Author: ```suggestion
Mailers and Controllers in Rails, share similar kinds of functionality: reading variables from passed parameters, loading data, and rendering output. The Rails codebase reflects this as both Mailers and Controllers inherit parts of their behaviour from `AbstractController` ([documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/AbstractController/Base.html)).
```

The separation of the mailer views, even if only to a subdirectory within `app/views`, feels more in line with the separation of the mailers (`app/mailers`) from controllers (`app/controllers`).

I find it much easier to find the email templates when I make this small change.

## Why not?

> The default is fine, and this is a [pernickety](https://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english/pernickety) organisational opinion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a [pernickety](https://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english/pernickety) organisational opinion. The default is ok.
```

> It isn’t the default. It could be said you’re making it harder to understand for newcomers to the project. Plus modern IDEs allow fuzzy file lookup so the location of files isn’t that important.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It could be said that you’re making your codebase harder for newcomers to understand. Plus, modern IDEs allow fuzzy file lookup, so the location of files isn’t that important.
```

Reviewer: To be honest, this issue reads like, especially given the "Why not": does this instalment really need to exist? 😬😅

Author: It's still better organisation. This should be the Rails default.

> It isn’t the default. It could be said you’re making it harder to understand for newcomers to the project. Plus modern IDEs allow fuzzy file lookup so the location of files isn’t that important.

Author: ```suggestion
Modern IDEs allow fuzzy-file lookup so the location of files isn’t that important.

You are changing your codebase from reasonable defaults, which is normally no ideal. However in this case the change is small, well defined and improves separation and organisation from the standard locations.
```

---
title: "All Your Mailer Views in One Place"
description: "A little separation"
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2020/all-your-mailer-views-in-one-place'
  alt: "Envelopes"
  credit:  Joanna Kosinska
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/uGcDWKN91Fs"
---

> One of the greatest things that Rails provides to developers is a sensible set of defaults for _where stuff goes_ in the file hierarchy. The standard approach to `app/models`, `app/mailers`, `app/views`, `config`, etc,  allows us to arrive at a Rails project and quickly understand where existing code is and where to place our new code.

Reviewer: *etc.,

Author: ```suggestion
One of the greatest things that Rails provides to developers is a sensible set of defaults for _where stuff goes_ in the file hierarchy. The standard approach to `app/models`, `app/mailers`, `app/views`, `config`, etc.,  allows us to arrive at a Rails project and quickly understand where existing code is and where to place our new code.
```

> I’m therefore loathe to deviate much from the defaults, but I make one exception: email view templates.

Author: ```suggestion
I’m therefore loathe to deviate much from the defaults, but I make one exception: email view templates. They live in the same part of the folder hierarchy as the web views, e.g. `app/views/whatever_mailer`, even though Mailers are in a different location to Controllers. Even after a decade of Rails I still struggle to find them.
```

## Instead of...

> ...storing your mailer templates in their default location.

Reviewer: Colon

Author: ```suggestion
...storing your mailer templates in their default location:
```

> I’m therefore loathe to deviate much from the defaults, but I make one exception: email view templates. They live in the same part of the folder hierarchy as the web views, e.g. `app/views/whatever_mailer`, even though Mailers are in a different location to Controllers. Even after a decade of Rails I still struggle to find them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I’m therefore loathe to deviate from the defaults, but I do make one exception: email view templates. They live in the same part of the folder hierarchy as the web views tied to Controllers, e.g. the views for `whatever_mailer` are found in `app/views/whatever_mailer`, even though your application's Mailers are in a different location to your Controllers. 

I don't know about you but, after a decade of Rails I still struggle to find mailer views.
```

e.g. for `UserMailer`, the mailer is in `app/mailers/user_mailer.rb` and the view templates are in `app/views/user_mailer`.

## Use

> ...a folder/subdirectory within `app/views` or a new “top-level” directory within `app`.

Reviewer: This is so much clearer to me — I mean, I know I've read this 5 times already but you know what I mean — now that you've set up the problem in advance.

Author: SMELLS LIKE VICTORY

```ruby
class ApplicationMailer < ActionMailer::Base
  prepend_view_path "app/views/mailers"
end
```

...or preferably...

```ruby
class ApplicationMailer < ActionMailer::Base
  prepend_view_path "app/mailer_views"
end
```

Then move the files from `app/views/user_mailer` to `app/views/mailers/user_mailer` or `app/mailer_views/user_mailer`.

## Why?

Mailers and Controllers in Rails, share similar kinds of functionality: reading variables from passed parameters, loading data, and rendering output. The Rails codebase reflects this as both Mailers and Controllers inherit parts of their behaviour from `AbstractController` ([documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/AbstractController/Base.html)).

> The separation of the mailer views, even if only to a subdirectory within `app/views`, feels more in line with the separation of the mailers (`app/mailers`) from controllers (`app/controllers`).

Reviewer: At this point I'm still not sure why this is important.

> I find it much easier to find the email templates when I make this small change.

Reviewer: I think you might to identify early in this issue that the problem is struggling to find where mailer views live.

Because: who care if you struggle to find them if none of your readers do?

Reviewer: I'd add after the bit where you make an exception, something like: because it's hard to figure out where they live, x, y, z..something like that.

Then your reader can go: yeah! I get that too. Lemme see how Andy recommends we fix that.

As opposed to continually reading, wondering: why are we doing this? Oh, Andy finds it hard to remember where they are.

> I find it much easier to find the email templates when I make this small change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Making this small change will make it much easier to find email templates in your application.
```

Make it less about you and more how it can help your readers!

I know not everyone will suffer with this, but that's their problem. You're arguing that this is the better option!

## Why not?

This is a [pernickety](https://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english/pernickety) organisational opinion. The default is ok.

Modern IDEs allow fuzzy-file lookup so the location of files isn’t that important.

> You are changing your codebase from reasonable defaults, which is normally no ideal. However in this case the change is small, well defined and improves separation and organisation from the standard locations.

Author: ```suggestion
You are changing your codebase from reasonable Rails defaults, which is normally not ideal. However the change is small, well defined and improves separation and organisation from the standard locations—I'd argue this should be the Rails default..
```

> You are changing your codebase from reasonable Rails defaults, which is normally not ideal. However the change is small, well defined and improves separation and organisation from the standard locations—I'd argue this should be the Rails default..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are changing your codebase from reasonable Rails defaults, which is normally not ideal. However the change is small, well-defined and improves upon the separation and organisation implied by the standard locations—I'd argue _this_ should be the Rails default.
```

> You are changing your codebase from reasonable Rails defaults, which is normally not ideal. However the change is small, well-defined and improves upon the separation and organisation implied by the standard locations—I'd argue _this_ should be the Rails default.

Reviewer: *comma after "well-defined". 😏

Author: ```suggestion
You are changing your codebase from reasonable Rails defaults, which is normally not ideal. However the change is small, well-defined, and improves upon the separation and organisation implied by the standard locations—I'd argue _this_ should be the Rails default.
```

I’m therefore loathe to deviate from the defaults, but I do make one exception: email view templates. They live in the same part of the folder hierarchy as the web views tied to Controllers, e.g. the views for `whatever_mailer` are found in `app/views/whatever_mailer`, even though your application's Mailers are in a different location to your Controllers. 

I don't know about you but, after a decade of Rails I still struggle to find mailer views.

## Instead of...

...storing your mailer templates in their default location:

e.g. for `UserMailer`, the mailer is in `app/mailers/user_mailer.rb` and the view templates are in `app/views/user_mailer`.

## Use

...a folder/subdirectory within `app/views` or a new “top-level” directory within `app`.

```ruby
class ApplicationMailer < ActionMailer::Base
  prepend_view_path "app/views/mailers"
end
```

...or preferably...

```ruby
class ApplicationMailer < ActionMailer::Base
  prepend_view_path "app/mailer_views"
end
```

Then move the files from `app/views/user_mailer` to `app/views/mailers/user_mailer` or `app/mailer_views/user_mailer`.

## Why?

> Mailers and Controllers in Rails, share similar kinds of functionality: reading variables from passed parameters, loading data, and rendering output. The Rails codebase reflects this as both Mailers and Controllers inherit parts of their behaviour from `AbstractController` ([documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/AbstractController/Base.html)).

Reviewer: No comma after Rails in the first sentence! How did I miss this? 😱

Author: ```suggestion
Mailers and Controllers in Rails share similar kinds of functionality: reading variables from passed parameters, loading data, and rendering output. The Rails codebase reflects this as both Mailers and Controllers inherit parts of their behaviour from `AbstractController` ([documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/AbstractController/Base.html)).
```

> The separation of the mailer views, even if only to a subdirectory within `app/views`, feels more in line with the separation of the mailers (`app/mailers`) from controllers (`app/controllers`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The separation of the mailer views, even if only to a subdirectory within `app/views`, feels more in line with the separation of the mailers (`app/mailers`) from controllers (`app/controllers`) in the default file hierarchy.
```
